Server coding and design guidelines (#2240)
ls1intum/Artemis: docs/dev/guidelines/server.rst

    * service - store Spring Boot services.
    * web - contains two folders:
        * rest - contains resources (REST controllers) represented by separate files.
        * websocket - contains files related to the Web Socket and you can use messagingTemplate to push data to the client from the server through them.

1. Naming convention:
=====================

All variables, methods and classes should use CamelCase style. The only difference: a first letter of class should be capital. Most importantly use intention-revealing, pronounceable names.

2. Single responsibility principle:
===================================

One method should be responsible only for one action, it should do it well and do it only. Reduce coupling, if our method does two or three different things at a time then we should consider splitting the functionality.

3. Small methods:
=================

There is not a standard pattern for method length among the developers. Someone can say 5, in some cases even 20 lines of code is okay. Just try to make methods as small as possible.

4. Duplication:
===============

> Avoid code duplication. If we cannot reuse a method in other place then probably this method is bad and we should consider a better way to write this method. Use Abstraction to abstract common things in one place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid code duplication. If we cannot reuse a method elsewhere, then the method is probably bad and we should consider a better way to write this method. Use Abstraction to abstract common things in one place.
```

5. Variables and methods declaration:
=================================

> * Encapsulate the code you feel might changed in future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Encapsulate the code you feel might change in future.
```

* Make variable and methods private by default and increasing access step by step like from a private to protected and not public.
* Classes, methods or functions should be Open for extension and Closed for modification(Open Closed Design Principle).
* Program for the interface and not for implementation, you should use interface type on variables, return types of a method or argument type of methods. Just like using SuperClass type to store object rather using SubClass.

> * The use of interface is to facilitate polymorphism, client should not implement an interface method if its not needed.

Reviewer 3: This reads a bit strange, I guess a the/a is missing?

6. Structure your code correctly:
=================================

> * Default packages not allowed. It can cause particular problems for Spring Boot applications that use the ``@ComponentScan``, ``@EntityScan`` or ``@SpringBootApplication`` annotations since every class from every jar is read.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Default packages are not allowed. It can cause particular problems for Spring Boot applications that use the ``@ComponentScan``, ``@EntityScan`` or ``@SpringBootApplication`` annotations since every class from every jar is read.
```

* All variables in the class should be declared at the top of the class.
* If variable is used only in one method then it would be better to declare it as a local variable of this method.
* Methods should be declared in the same order as they are used (from top to bottom).
* More important methods should be declared at the top of a class and minor methods at the end.

7. Database:
============

> * Write performant queries that can also deal with more 1000 objects in a reasonable time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Write performant queries that can also deal with more 1000 objects in a reasonable time.
```

> * Prefer one query that fetches additional data instead of many small queries, but don't overdo it. A good rule of thumb is to query not more than 3 associations at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prefer one query that fetches additional data instead of many small queries, but don't overdo it. A good rule of thumb is to query no more than 3 associations at the same time.
```

> * Think about lazy vs. eager fetching when modeling the data types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Think about lazy vs. eager fetching when modeling the data types.
```

> * Simple datatypes: immediately think about whether null should be supported as additional state or not. In most cases it is preferable to avoid null

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Simple datatypes: immediately think about whether null should be supported as additional state or not. In most cases it is preferable to avoid null.
```

> * Use ``Timestamp`` instead of ``Datetime``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use ``Timestamp`` instead of ``Datetime``.
```

8. Comments:
============

> Only if we are writing complicated algorithm and our comments will help other developers to better understand it. If we are adding a comment then our code is not self-explaining.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only write comments for complicated algorithms to help other developers better understand them. If we add a comment, our code is not self-explanatory.
```

9. Utility:
===========

> Utility methods can and should be placed in a class named for specific functionality, not “miscellaneous stuff related to project”. Most of the time, our static methods belong on a related class.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Utility methods can and should be placed in a class named for specific functionality, not “miscellaneous stuff related to project”. Most of the time, our static methods belong in a related class.
```

10. Auto configuration:
=======================

> Spring Boot favors Java-based configuration. Although it is possible to use Sprint Boot with XML sources but it’s generally not recommended. You need not put all your @Configuration into a single class. The @Import annotation can be used to import additional configuration classes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spring Boot favors Java-based configuration. Although it is possible to use Sprint Boot with XML sources but it’s generally not recommended. You need not put all your `@Configuration` into a single class. The `@Import` annotation can be used to import additional configuration classes.
```

> Spring Boot favors Java-based configuration. Although it is possible to use Sprint Boot with XML sources but it’s generally not recommended. You need not put all your @Configuration into a single class. The @Import annotation can be used to import additional configuration classes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spring Boot favors Java-based configuration. Although it is possible to use Sprint Boot with XML sources, it is generally not recommended. You need not put all your `@Configuration` into a single class. The `@Import` annotation can be used to import additional configuration classes.
```

One of the flagship features of Spring Boot is its use of Auto-configuration. This is the part of Spring Boot that makes your code simply work. It gets activated when a particular jar file is detected on the classpath. The simplest way to make use of it is to rely on the Spring Boot Starters.

> 11. Keep your @RestController’s clean and focused:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
11. Keep your ``@RestController``-s clean and focused:
```

==================================================

* RestControllers should be stateless.
* RestControllers are by default singletons.
* RestControllers should not execute business logic but rely on delegation.
* RestControllers should deal with the HTTP layer of the application.
* RestControllers should be oriented around a use-case/business-capability.

Route naming conventions:

* Always use kebab-case (e.g. "/exampleAssessment" → "/example-assessment").
* The routes should follow the general structure entity > entityId > sub-entity ... (e.g. "/exercises/{exerciseId}/participations").

> * Use plural for route's entities.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Use plural for a route's entities.
```

* Specify the key entity at the end of the route (e.g. "text-editor/participations/{participationId}" should be changed to "participations/{participationId}/text-editor").

> * Never specify an id that is used only for consistency and not used in the code (e.g. GET "/courses/{courseId}/exercises{exerciseId}/participations/{participationId}/submissions/{submissionId}" can be simplified to GET "/submissions/{submissionId}" because all other entities than the submission are either not needed or can be loaded without the need to specify the id).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Never specify an id that is used only for consistency and not used in the code (e.g. GET "/courses/{courseId}/exercises/{exerciseId}/participations/{participationId}/submissions/{submissionId}" can be simplified to GET "/submissions/{submissionId}" because all other entities than the submission are either not needed or can be loaded without the need to specify the id).
```

Additional notes on the controller methods:

* POST should return the newly created entity
* Always use @PreAuthorize tag to only allow certain roles to access the method.
* Never trust user input and check if the passed data exists in the database.
* Always use different response status codes to notify the client about errors on the server:
    * Forbidden - the user is not authorized to access the controller.
    * Bad Request - the request was wrong.
    * Not Found - can't find the requested data or it should be not accessible yet.

12. Dependency injection:
=========================

> * Some of you may argue this, but by favoring constructor injection you can keep your business logic free from Spring. Not only is the @Autowired annotation optional on constructors, you also get the benefit of being able to easily instantiate your bean without Spring.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Some of you may argue this, but by favoring constructor injection you can keep your business logic free from Spring. Not only is the `@Autowired` annotation optional on constructors, you also get the benefit of being able to easily instantiate your bean without Spring.
```

> * Some of you may argue this, but by favoring constructor injection you can keep your business logic free from Spring. Not only is the @Autowired annotation optional on constructors, you also get the benefit of being able to easily instantiate your bean without Spring.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Some of you may argue with this, but by favoring constructor injection you can keep your business logic free from Spring. Not only is the @Autowired annotation optional on constructors, you also get the benefit of being able to easily instantiate your bean without Spring.
```

* Use setter based DI only for optional dependencies.
* Avoid circular dependencies, try constructor and setter based DI for such cases.

13. REST best practices:
========================

* Verify that API endpoints perform appropriate authorization and authentication consistent with the rest of the code base.
* Check for other common weaknesses, e.g., weak configuration, malicious user input, missing log events, etc.
* Handle exceptions and errors with a standard response. Errors are very important in REST APIs. They inform clients that something went wrong, after all.

14. Keep it simple and stupid:
==============================

* Don’t write complex code.
* Don’t write code when you are tired or in a bad mood.

> * Optimization vs Readability, always write code that is simple to read and which will be understandable for developers. Because time and resources that will be spent on hard readable code will be much higher than what you get from optimization.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Optimization vs Readability, always write code that is simple to read and which will be understandable for developers. Because the time and resources spent on hard-to-read code cost much more than what we gain through optimization.
```

* Commit messages should describe both what the commit changes and how it does it.

> * ARCHITECTURE FIRST, writing code without thinking of its architecture is useless in the same way as dreaming about your desires without a plan of achieving them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ARCHITECTURE FIRST, writing code without thinking of the system's architecture is useless, in the same way as dreaming about your desires without a plan of achieving them.
```

15. General best practices:
===========================

> * Always use the least possible access level, prefer using private over public access modifier (protected can be used as well).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Always use the least possible access level, prefer using private over public access modifier (package-private or protected can be used as well).
```

> * Previously we used transactions very random, now we have to avoid using Transactional, if not sure that they are needed. Transactions can kill performance, introduce locking issues and database concurrency problems, and add complexity to our application. Good read: https://codete.com/blog/5-common-spring-transactional-pitfalls/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously we used transactions very randomly, now we have to avoid using `@Transactional`, if we are not sure that they are needed. Transactions can kill performance, introduce locking issues and database concurrency problems, and add complexity to our application. Good read: https://codete.com/blog/5-common-spring-transactional-pitfalls/
```

> * Define a constant if the same value is used more than once. Constants allow to change code later a lot easier, instead of looking for the places where this variable was used, you only need to change it in only one place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Define a constant if the same value is used more than once. Constants allow you to change code later a lot easier. Instead of looking for the places where this variable was used, you only need to change it in only one place.
```

> * Facilitate code reuse. Always move duplicated code to reusable methods. Intelij is very good at suggesting duplicated lines and even automatically extracting them. Also don't be shy to use Generics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Facilitate code reuse. Always move duplicated code to reusable methods. IntelliJ is very good at suggesting duplicated lines and even automatically extracting them. Also don't be shy to use Generics.
```
